
                       CHIANTI 

         A DATABASE FOR EMISSION LINE SPECTROSCOPY

                     Version 7.0   
                    -------------

 Jul 4, 2011

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

CHIANTI consists of a database of atomic data and IDL procedures for
calculating spectroscopic emission line intensities from optically thin
astrophysical spectra as a function of density and temperature. 

CHIANTI includes atomic parameters such as ion level energies, ionization
potentials, spectroscopic informations, and transition rates for spontaneous 
radiative decay, electron and proton excitation and de-excitation, and
parameters for the calculation of continuum radiation.

The original paper describing the database has appeared in 1997 in Astronomy 
and Astrophysics Supplement Series, 125, 149, authored by K. P. Dere (NRL), 
E.  Landi (U. Florence), H. E. Mason (U. Cambridge), B. Monsignori Fossi
(Arcetri) and P. R. Young (U. Cambridge). Since then, CHIANTI has undergone
several major updates to include data for many more ions and physical
processes, as well as to update and to expand the data of the ions already
in the database.

With Version 7, CHIANTI includes data for new ions, as well as significant
upgrades to the data of several key Fe ions. Data for many other existing
ions have been updated or expanded. Also, a complete suite of programs 
written in Python language is released, that allows to calculate synthetic 
spectra and carry out plasma diagnostics with roughly the same level of 
functionality of the standard IDL suite of programs.

The CHIANTI database, IDL software and User Guides are distributed freely
and they are available in the Internet, at the following address:

                 http://www.chiantidatabase.org

CHIANTI is also freely distributed as part of the SolarSoft package 
(http:www.lmsal.com/solarsoft). The Python suite of programs can be found
at 

                 http://chiantipy.sourceforge.net

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The CHIANTI team has set up a Google Group, which is used by the team to send new
announcements about CHIANTI and is also a place where users can post comments or
questions. Once you've joined the group, questions or comments can be sent to
chianti@googlegroups.com.

In order to join the CHIANTI Google Group, please send an e-mail to Peter Young.
He will then send an invitation for you to join the group.

The group works as follows: when you accept the group invitation, your name and
e-mail address are stored in the Google group account, and all future messages
posted to the group will automatically be forwarded to your e-mail address.

If you prefer to send your question just to the CHIANTI team, there is also a
chianti_help e-mail address that will circulate your message only to the team
members. 




